Python Notes

versatile programming language
excel -- > python
can create web app
google instagram, spotify and other apps use python
games web apps, mobile apps

Libraries - collection of functions. 
How to get connection to different websites - e.g. google and facebook use their own libraries 
python is relatively easy to use and learn

homework - go through the functions page and go over the commands on the URL https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html

python shell is a backdoor to a computer - command prompt

Variable name  - 
computers have long term memory and short terms memory (RAM)
long term memory - file or database 
python lives in the short term memory
in python if we need to save values we need to create variable name. Example "x"

X=
"=" we are assigning a value 

computers need to variables to store numbers 

7 is going to be stored as a particular data type. Computers know how this data is going to be used in future. 
7 is a numberic datatype 

in python there are two numeric datatype- integer or float

float is a precise number with a decimal point. 
So 7 is a integer and 7.5 is a float

math operation is only possible between two numberic datatype. integer , integer, float, float 

Area of all rooms on this floor 

if you want to save something in the memory, use a variable e.g. total = x*y

how to use delete in terminal - 

couple of magic commands 
first command is "type"

string values are within ""
what is a string - 
built in function ord (order) f
computer stores imogis as a number. Python saves lower case a as 97 and upper case A as 65. String is a sequential datatype. It could be any character.
can use any quotes to define a string. 
anything that you wrap in quotes will be considered a string 
ord - stands for order 

string could be empty as well - " "


best part of python is that it help you with the error messages 
the error says that you cannot use the "+" operator between the strings 

options 
built in function  - int 
same operator + behaves differently in terms of string and numberic. 
good programmer always thinks about datatypes -- important 


Three major commands 
TYPE () 
DIR ()
HELP()
strings come in with built in commands  called attributes 
dunder methods __

word.upper - upper is the method that could be applied to this particular object. upper method comes from the object itself 

variable name that hold that object.method - this is the syntax 

if you do dir on the word, then if the method is not 

dir will list all the available commands 

[] index

minus or negative sign is from going from right to left

slice the string - start:stop:step
stop is excluded

Step = how many characters to skip


exercise 

string = "aAbBcCdDeE"

the goal is to get all the lower case letters in the list 

get all lower case letters starting with e

Homework : take any sentence and try to slice it. example - what will be the practical use? 

you have an address : "115 W 30th. St, New York, NY, 12345"

create file and run the program


Exercise 

Check = 50$
Tax_Rate= 0.08
Tip_Rate= 0.18

pseudo code - plain words the plan 



logic if and else 

Summary note s

Integer
Float
String
Boolean - True vs False 

Type()
Dir() - all available commands 
help()









